- [Instructor] Throughout this course,
we will build a small application for Landon hotel
that calls several popular APIs
using a variety of techniques in Java.
The application will monitor Twitter
for tweets by guests that mentioned Hotel Landon.
When a tweet occurs, a text message with an assessment
of the tweet sentiment
will be sent to the hotel manager's cell phone.
To build the application,
we'll need to work with three APIs, the Twitter API,
the text analytics API from Azure Cognitive Services
and a messaging API from Twilio.
The application will use the Spring Framework WebClient
to receive tweets that are pushed to the client
by Twitter streaming API that is protected by OAuth 2.
Once the tweet is received from the stream,
it will be sent to the text analytics API
within Azure Cognitive Services.
This API will determine if the sentiment was positive
or negative.
To make this call, we'll use the native HTTP Client
introduced in Java 11
and a security scheme based on an API key.
After the sentiment data is returned
from Azure Cognitive Services,
we'll construct a text message that describes the sentiment.
To deliver the message to the Landon hotel manager,
we'll use the SMS messaging API provided by Twilio.
This call will give us some great experience
working with the Open Fame Project
which makes calling APIs much simpler in Java.
We'll also see how to call APIs that are protected
with basic authentication.
Each chapter in the course teaches you
how to use a popular API, a specific client technology,
and a different security scheme.
This gives you broad exposure to the situations
that you'll encounter
when calling rest APIs.
In the challenge for each chapter,
you'll be asked to build the next API integration
to deliver the monitoring application for Hotel Landon.
So each challenge will add another increment to the project.
Starting with Azure Cognitive Services integration,
then moving to Twitter
and concluding with Twilio.
If you need help with the challenge,
you can always check out the solution.
In the solution, I'll show you how I completed
the API integration for the project.
By the end of the course project,
you'll have a fully functioning application
that uses AI, social media,
and text messaging to demonstrate the power of web APIs.
And Oh yeah, it's also pretty impressive
to show your friends.
All right, let's go ahead and get started.